Hello and welcome back! In this video we're
going to be going over how to ask good questions.
Hola y bienvenido de nuevo, en este video vamos a ver como hacer buenas preguntas
So, what's the first thing? Well, that's what
we're going to be going over. And why is it
Que es lo primero?¿Por que hacemos esto?
important and why are we doing this? We now
have over 22,000 students on the course and
Ahora tenemos sobre 22000 estudiantes en el curso y
we want to make it easy for everybody to get
their questions answered. We can't get to
queremos hacerlo facil para que que todo el mundo tenga sus preguntas respondidas
all of the questions that are going to come
up, so we want to make sure that every time
No podemos responder todas las preguntas, por lo que queremos hacer facil
you ask a question it's easy for other students
to answer it as well. You'll also find that
que al preguntar una pregunta sea facil para los otros estudiantes responderla. Veras tambien que el proceso de preguntar una buena pregunta te
the process of asking a good question will
often solve the original problem, before you
ayudara a menudo a resolverla antes
even press the post button. Asking good questions
is useful and it'll be appreciated, if you're
incluso de clickear post. Hacer buenas preguntas es util y se aprecia,
ever in a work environment or even in school,
back in school, asking a good question is
si estas en el trabajo , o incluso en el colegio. Hacer una buena pregunta
useful. So, what's the first thing? The first
thing is we want good admin. We want to make
es util. Lo primero es que queremos una buena administracion. Queremos asegurarnos de que
sure that your question can be found and that
we can know when to pay attention to them
tu pregunta se puede encontrar y que podamos saber cuando prestar atencion a ella
and when not to pay attention to them. So,
always mark your question with [Help] or [Solved],
y cuando no. Asi que siempre marca tu pregunta con [Help] o [Solved],
at the beginning of the title, if you have
no other way of showing that a question has
al principio de la pregunta cuando accedes a ella
been solved. So, for example, if you go to
a specific question and answer forum, like
no hay manera de saber si esta respondida o no
Stack Overflow, you'll find that they have
mechanisms in place to show that the question
como en foros como Stack Overflow, pero en nuestros
has been answered or not. We don't in our
forums on Udemy and many forums don't, so
foros o los de Udemy no se puede, por eso es es util que lo
it's always useful to add in the beginning
of the title of your question, to make sure
añadas al principio del titulo [Help] o [Solved]
that you say [Help] or [Solved], so that people
don't have to worry about looking at questions
para asegurarnos de que no tienes que preocuparte de mirar preguntas
that have already been solved. Also, use clear
descriptive titles and correct grammar and
que se hayan ya resuelto. Tambien usa titulos descriptivos claros y gramatica correcta, puntuacion y frases enteras,
punctuation and full sentences, when you're
actually asking the question. Those things
cuando hagas la pregunta
are important to make it easy to understand
what you're talking about, easy to find the
es importante para que sea facil de entender de lo que hablas, facil de encontrar el problema,
problem, and easy to parse, because we have
some none, even for none native speakers of
incluso facil de analizar, porque tenemos usuarios que hablan ingles
English, who will find it much easier to parse
full sentences than abbreviations or partial
que veran mas facil analizar frases completas en vez de abreviaciones
sentences. So, that's the first one, have
good admin when you when you give a question,
Ese es el primero administrarte bien al hacer la pregunta
and don't forget to mark it as [Solved], once
the question has been answered. So, you need
no te olvides de escribir [Solved] cuando se responda.
to write a good description, and that means
you need to describe the problem thoroughly,
Necesitas describir el problema muy bien
and the best way to do that is actually something
from programming and from software engineering,
y la mejor manera de hacerlo es realmente algo de programacion o ingenieria de programacion,
is just format it as a Bug Report. So, there's
things in the Bug Report that you need to
es formatearla como un informe de error. Hay que cosas que debes incluir en el informe del error,
include are observed Behavior: What you saw happen.
Expected Behavior: How the Observed Behavior
Comportamiento observado: lo que viste que paso.Comportamiento esperado:como lo que viste difiere de lo que esperabas ver
differed from the Expected Behavior, what
you want to happen, and then, the Steps to
y finalmente los pasos para reproducir el error.
Reproduce the actual occurrence. So, how would
you reproduce the problem, to that step to
Como reproducirias el problema, hasta ese momento esa situacion
that situation, so that you can reproduce
it on say my machine or on somebody else's
para poder reproducirlo en mi ordenador o en el de otra persona
machine? And then, there are lists of things
you have tried out already, so that we don't
despues las cosas que has intentado ya para resolverlo
duplicate our efforts by having somebody who
wants to answer you question trying out things
para no duplicarle el esfuerzo a la persona que va a ayudarte
you've already done. Now make sure you include
all the relevant information, that includes
Asegurate de incluir todas las frases enteras de errores y warnings.
the errors and the warning in full. If you
have errors and warnings, add them in full.
Si los tienes incluyelos en la pregunta.
Include the version information for the products
you're using, in our case it's going to be
Incluye informacion de los productos que estas usando, en nuestro caso de Unity
Unity. It's quite important, version information
matters a lot. Different versions will have
Es muy importante. Diferentes versiones tendran distintos API,eso significa que tendran distintas maneras de hacer
different programming API, so that means they
a have different way of doing the same thing,
la misma cosa
and we need to know which version to look
at to answer your question. Make sure you
y tenemos que ver la version a la que mirar para resolver tu pregunta
use screenshots generously, to show the problem.
Take some screenshots of both the entire window,
Usa capturas de pantallas de toda la ventana,
so that we can see your Inspector and your
Hierarchy, those are important information,
para poder ver tu inspector y tu Hierarchy, eso es informacion importante
when you've got an object selected, as well
as a smaller screenshot of the problem your
Cuando tienes un objeto elegido y una pequeña captura de pantalla del problema
having itself. Sometimes a screenshot isn't
appropriate, it's not suitable, use your judgement
A veces una captura no es relevante , usa tu juicio para usar una
to see whether you should use a screenshot.
In most of the cases, if you've got a visual
captura o no. Si tienes un problema visual siempre ayudara
problem in the game a screenshot will always
help and it never hurts. Use a code hosting
y no cuesta nada. Usa una pagina para alojar codigo.
service. That's another really good tip. Not
many general purpose forums are good to share
Esto es un muy buen consejo. No demasiados foros generales son buenos para mostrar codigo.
code on. In Udemy, at least the coding sharing
is OK for one line or two, but it really breaks
en Udemy compartir codigo de una linea o dos esta bien , pero no funciona muy bien con mas lineas
down when you have any more code to share.
It's really not designed for sharing code,
No esta diseñado para compartir codigo,
so use the right tool for the right job. Use
pastebin.com or gist.github.com to share your
usa la herramienta adecuada para el trabajo adecuado, usa
pastebin.com o gist.github.com para compartir
code. It's all going to be syntax highlighted.
Make sure you post complete files. Often we'll
tu codigo. Todo la sintaxis va a subrayarse. Asegurate de postear archivos completos.
find that a student has had an issue on one
line, but actually, it's a syntax error that
Frecuentemente vemos como un estudiante a tenido un problema en una linea pero realmente el problema esta 5 lineas antes
the student made five lines earlier. Make
sure to include the complete file, however
Muestra el archivo completo pero no hagas que el que te ayude se lea todo el
you don't want people to read your entire
file. Point them at the line that you think
archivo, sino muestra la linea indicada donde crees que esta el problema
is the problem. If there's an error message,
the line on which the error occurs should
si hay un mensaje de error la linea donde ocurre el error se debede mostrar claramente
be available to you and you should point people
directly to that line. Screenshots are a reasonable
asi podras mostrar a la gente esa linea en particular. Capturas de pantalla es
alternative for code, so for example, automatic
syntax highlighting can help guide you, and
una alterantiva razonable a codigo por ejemplo, subrayado autamatico de la sintaxis debe ayudarte, y
if you have a problem with that it's much
easier to take a screenshot of the automatic
si tienes un problema con eso es mucho mas facil tomar una captura de pantalla
syntax highlighting in MonoDevelop or whatever
IDE you're using, than it is to see the same
en monodevelop o el programa que estes usando,
problem in a different editor online. So,
that's when a screenshot is a reasonable alternative.
si tienes el mismo problema en cualquier otro editor online es cuando una captura es la alterantica razonable.
Build a minimum viable test case. That's a
really useful tool. Essentially you don't
Asegurate que el codigo que compartas
want any code in the code you're going to
be sharing with someone else to not be relevant
sea el que contiene el error.
to your problem directly. So, code does lots
of stuff. You'll have a file that does a bunch
Programar hace muchas cosas tendras una carpeta que hace
of different things and your problem will be
with only one aspect of that code. You really want
muchas cosas distintas y tu problema sera solo un aspecto de ese codigo.
to make sure that the entire code that you're
going to be sharing with somebody else is
Quieres asegurarte que el codigo que compartas sea solo el
only the code relevant to the problem. You
need to make sure that what you're sharing
relevante para el problema
still exhibits the problem, alright and still
has the problem, so it's a fully working piece
Luego es una pieza de codigo que contiene el codigo problematico
of code that only includes code that's relevant
to your problem. It's a lot easier to reason
Es mucho mas facil razonar con cachos pequeños de codigo que con grandes
about small code samples than large ones,
and it's easier for other people to find the
y es mas facil para otra gente encontrar el problema tambien
problem as well. So, the golden rule is write
a question the way you'd like to be asked,
La regla de oro es , pregunta una pregunta del modo que te gustaria que te la preguntasen,y no la preguntes
and don't ask till you've tried 3 different
things to solve the problem yourself. So,
antes de haber tu intentado 3 modos distintos de resolver el problema tu mismo.
in order to show you what I mean in practice,
let's show you how I would write a bug report
Para demostraros lo que digo en la practica, voy a escribir un
for a problem I have in Unity. So, let's jump
into Unity and take a look. So, I'm in Unity
informe de errores acerca de un problema que tengo en unity
and my problem I have right now is I've got
this object, this cube. I want it to turn
El problema es, tengo este objeto, este cubo. Quiero que se ponga rojo
red whenever the ball goes through it, so
let me press play and show you what I mean.
cuando la bola pasa por el, voy a presionar play y enseñarte lo que digo
Right now, the ball goes straight through
it, but the cube doesn't turn read, however
Ahora la bola pasa por el pero el cubo no cambia de color, sin embargo
I've written some code in my ChangeOnCollision
function, right here that should be changing
he escrito codigo en mi funcion ChangeOnCollision, esto deberia estar cambiando
the code red, and I'm not quite sure why it's
not working. So, I want to write a question
el color a rojo. Quiero escribir una pregunta en el foro para pedir ayuda a los
to the Udemy forums. to get some help from
other students. So, the first thing I'm going
otros estudiantes. Asi que, lo primero que voy a hacer es
to do is I'm going to jump into my Udemy forums,
right here, and I'm going to start creating
voy a ir a los foros de Udemy y crear una nueva discusion.
a new discussion. So, I'm going to click Add
Discussion and give a useful title for my
Clickeo Add discussion y le doy un titulo util a la discusion.
discussion. So, the first thing I want to
write is [Help]. I want to make sure this
Lo primero que voy a escribir es [Help]. Quiero asegurarme de que no se ha resuelto ya
question has not been resolved yet, so I'm
putting [Help].When it has been resolved,
por eso pongo [Help].Cuando se resuelva pondre [Solved].
when I'm done I will put [Solved] instead
of help, I will edit my question, change it.
Edito my pregunto, la cambio.
Right now, I'm just going to put... and give
it a useful English description title, which
Ahora , voy a darle una descripcion en ingles util, la cual va a ser
is going to be "Cannot change the material
color from inside OnTriggerEnter function.
"No puedo cambiar el color desde la funcion OnTriggerEnter".
Now, don't worry about the technical details
of this question. It's basically irrelevant,
No os preocupeis de los detalles técnicos de esta pregunta. Son irrelevantes,
I just want to show you the process of writing
a good question, rather than the technical
Solo quiero explicaros el proceso de escribir una buena pregunta.
details, right. These technical details, you're
not expected to know what they are, what they
No tienes porque saber nada de los detalles técnicos de la pregunta pero debes tener una
mean, but you should get the idea of how to
write a good question, the kind of structure
idea de como escribir una buena pregunta, el tipo de estructura que necesita
it should have. So, I'm writing a good title,
so rather than doing that, I'm actually going
Voy a escribir un buen titulo. Haciendo la pregunta
to ask a question. So, I'm going to say "How
to change the material color from inside the
Como cambiar el color desde la funcion OnTriggerEnter?
OnTriggerEnter function? Cool, now I start to write the description of my function So, the first thing
I want to do is describe what my overall goal
Ahora, empiezo a describir mi funcion empezando con que es mi objetivo global,
is, so that people know where I'm going with
this. [Background Music Plays] Now, we can
para que la gente sepa hacia donde voy con esto. Ahora podemos decir cual es el comportamiento observado.
say, what's the observed behavior? [Background
Music Plays] Now, I can write the desired
Ahora, el comportamiento esperado.
behavior. [Background Music Plays] So, this
is quite a visual problem, so let's add a
Este es un problema visual , por lo que vamos a añadir capturas de pantalla
screenshot of what we mean. Let's jump back
into Unity and add a good screenshot. To do
volvamos a Unity y añadamos una buena captura de pantalla.
that, I'm going to press play and pause immediately,
and I'm going to step through the program.
Presiono play y pauso inmediatamente, y avanzo poco a poco el programa
Here we go, now we can see from the game that
the two are intersecting, but I'm not getting
Alla vamos, ahora podemos ver en el juego que los dos intersectan, pero no veo un cambio de color
a color change. So, now I'm going to take
a screenshot of that, of the entire game,
Tomo una captura de eso, del juego entero,
while I've got my cube selected. So, I've
got a shortcut to take a screenshot. On a
cuando tengo mi cubo seleccionado. Mi acceso directo en Mac es command,shift,3.
Mac that's Command, Shift, 3. Use whatever
screenshot tool you want, that's not very
Usa cualquier herramienta para tomar una captura.
relevant. Now, I can jump back into my game,
add a screenshot just before observed, and
Vuelvo al juego añado una captura antes del problema, me voy al
click insert image, choose the file, go into
my screenshots, I've got a bunch here, select
foro de Udemy , insertar imagen, elijo el archivo, voy a mis capturas, tengo muchas aqui,elijo la ultima
the latest one, wait for it to load, and here
we are. Now, we have a screenshot of our problem,
Ahora tenemos una una captura del problema,
in our question, so that people know what
we're talking about. Let's write a little
para que la gente sepa de lo que hablamos. Vamos a expandir en la descripcion
bit more about it in our description. What
else do we have? We have observed, desired
Hemos observado, pasos deseados para la reproduccion,
steps to reproduce. [Background Music Plays]
Make sure it's spelled properly, you can see
Asegurate de que este bien escrito, como ves mi navegador
that my browser is highlighting my errors.
I've got color, the American spelling for
me subraya los errores. Tengo color. La ortografia americana de color.
color. I'm going to stick with the American
spelling for now, that's fine. And now, I'm
Me quedo con la ortografia americana. Ahora escribo el version de Unity
going to write down my version number, so
I make sure I include that information, so
Me aseguro de incluir esa informacion, informacion relevante.
relevant information. Firstly, my Unity version
and I can find that out by going to my Unity
Primero, mi version de Unity y puedo encontrar eso llendo al editor de Unity
Editor, going to File or rather to About Unity.
It might be in a different place on the Windows
archivo o acerca de Unity. Puede estar en otro sitio en la version de Windows de Unity,
Unity version, and I can see here that I've
got 4.6.3f1. Jump back into Chrome, make sure
Puedo ver que tengo 4.6.3f1. Vuelvo a Chrome,
Unity 4.6.3f1 and the code, so let me add
a link to the code. Code for the cube, and
añado un enlace al programa.
then, I can jump back into MonoDevelop and
grab the code. Now, you're not expected to
Vuelvo a Monodevelop, pillo el codigo. No todo
read this code, but I will tell you not all
of this is relevant to our problem, so let's
el codigo es rrelevante. Quitamos la parte del codigo que no afecta al problema
remove all the stuff that's not relevant to
our problem, that could not cause the problem,
la que no lo causa,
because it's completely irrelevant. So, this
stuff, for example, is irrelevant. This function
porque es totalmente irrelevante. Como por ejemplo esta parte. Esta funcion es irrelevante
is completely irrelevant, so we can remove
it completely, and this line is now redundant,
podemos quitarla completamente, esta linea es redundante
so remove that. That is the complete code
we want, and we can get rid of comments that
Este es codigo que queremos, quitamos comentarios que sirvan
have no use. So, save this, make sure that
the behavior is still the problematic one,
Lo guardamos y nos aseguramos de que el comportamiento es todavia problematico,
so let's pause, start the game again to show
that it still occurs. Yes it does, the bug
pausamos, reanudamos el juego para asegurarnos de que todavia ocurre. Si, el error
still occurs. We're expecting this cube to
turn red but it isn't. Then, we can jump back
Esperamos que el cubo se ponga rojo pero no lo hace.
into our code, select all of it, copy it,
and go back into our web browser and go to
Seleccionamos el codigo desde monodevelop, copiamos y pegamos en gist o pastbin
a gist or a pastebin and paste the code in
here. Make sure we have the right language
Ponemos el lenguaje adecuado, C# en Unity,
for the selected; we want C# for Unity code,
and let's write the name of the file, which
los llamamos ChangeOnCollision.cs
is going to be ChangeOnCollision.cs. And I'm
going to create a public gist, and I'm going
creo un gist publico, y voy directamente
to be taken straight to my gist. And then,
I can select the URL, copy the URL, and paste
a mi gist. Selecciono la URL , copio y pego en
it in my question. So, let's jump back into
the question and add it. Now, you'll note
mi pregunta. Ves que la URL no se muestra como un
that the URL isn't a link by default, it doesn't
automatically translate URL's to links, so
enlace, Udemy no lo hace automaticamente,
I need to link this to the destination as
well so I click link, insert link, paste our
necesito enlazarlo al destino, clickeo , link, inserto, pego
link, and that should do the trick. Now, what
else do we need? What is the final bit of
y esto debe de solucionarlo. Que mas necesitamos, que el la ultima parte
information that we need? We need to add what
we've already tried, so that people won't
necesitamos añadir lo que ya hemos intentado para no hacer perder el tiempo  a los
waste their time trying the same things. So,
I add this and then Steps Tried Already, and
que nos ayuden. Intentos intentados ya, y despues
then, I can say add a list. [Background Music
Plays] Etc, etc. So, now we've got a full
puedo decir añadir una lista. Ahora tenemos una pregunta entera, una pregunta que
question, a question which has a description,
has a screenshot to show what's going wrong,
tiene una descripcion, una captura para enseñar lo que va mal,
has the observed and desired behavior, and
the steps to reproduce it, and the relevant
tenga el comportamiento observado, y los pasos para reproducirlo, y la informacion
information, including the code and link to
the code, hosted on a nice service where it's
relevante, incluido un enlace al codigo en un servio bueno que nos va a subrayar
all going to be syntax highlighted. And that
is a good question, and if you see this question,
la sintaxis. Y es una buena pregunta, si la ves,
I will post it and it will ask me to make
sure to proceed. It might now do that for
la posteo, me pregunta para confirmar. Puede que haga eso,
you, and then, we should see our question
in the discussions right here. Now, it is
Entonces vemos la pregunta en el foro ahi.
good practice to instead of asking a question
in the general discussion, like I've just
Es una buena idea preguntarla en la leccion en concreto en vez de en las discusiones generales
done, ask it against a particular lecture.
You'll be in the lecture, you'll be able to
De ese modo sabremos desde que
ask the question against the lecture, so we
can know which lecture you're currently on
leccion haces la pregunta
and currently working from. Now, this is a
complete question and whenever somebody replies,
so let me add a reply. [Background Music Plays]
Alright, so now I've got my answer, somebody's
answered my question. I will go back to my
question, go edit, and turn [Help] into [Solved] and save
And now, when people scroll by all the discussions,
they will see that this discussion has already
been solved, and they no longer need to pay
any attention to it, because the problem has
been resolved. OK, so that is it for now,
for how to ask questions on Udemy, about this
course and every forum, and really there's
a secret to this. The secret is asking questions
like this makes it more likely that you will
find a solution yourself. In fact, asking
questions like this, having a thorough well
thought out description, with all the relevant
information, means most of the time you'll
solve the question yourself and you will learn
something about it. So, actually asking good
questions makes you better at being a programmer
or being a developer, so that's the secret.
The secret is good questions help you learn.
And finally, there are some great resources
on how to ask a good question, that are very
thorough. How to ask on Stack Overflow is
a great one, it's very concentrated and very
focused. Jon Skeet's "Writing the Perfect
Question" is also very good. He spends a lot
of time answering questions on Stack Overflow,
and he has a very good idea of what makes
a good question. And finally, "How to Ask
Questions the Smart Way" is a really long
form resource that covers a lot of the topics
we've gone through today, as well as many
more, and it's an exceptionally good read.
Value for money, in terms of reading this,
the time you're going to spend vs. the time
you'll save in the future is huge. So, that's
it, I hope you now know how to ask great questions,
and you'll find it a lot easier to find help,
on Udemy but also elsewhere. Best of luck
and I will see you in the next video! Bye.